# Shane
A simple, easy to use, and ready-out-of-the-box IRC bouncer written in Java

# How to use
Download the latest release here (or compile it yourself, see below!)

Using your favorite Java implementation, just execute "java -jar Shane.jar"
In the working directory, a file named "shane.cfg" will be autogenerated. 
Edit the configuration file to your liking and you're good to go!

# Connecting to the bouncer
Shane essentially acts as a proxy between your IRC client and the IRC server. Instead of connecting to irc.freenode.net or chat.freenode.net, you'll set your IRC client to connect to the IP address of the computer / server that the bouncer is running on and the port that you specified under the "bouncer-port" for that network.

Shane bouncer has a nice little "profile" feature, where it stores missed messages based off of the nick of the connecting client. So on your laptop, you could tell your client to use the nick "myname-laptop" and your desktop can use "myname-desktop" and both will still appear as "myname" to everybody in the IRC channels. The advantage of this is say that your laptop falls asleep or you close it to catch a train, as soon as your laptop reconnects to the bouncer, it will send you the messages that your laptop missed inspite of your desktop still being connected at your home, office, dorm, etc. 

# Security
Shane supports TLS/SSL on both the bouncer <-> irc server connections and the client <-> bouncer connections. Configuration for that can all be found in the shane.cfg fie. Shane relies on Java keystores for the ssl certificate for the client <-> bouncer connection. 

A good resource for generating a self-signed Java keystore can be found [here](https://discuss.pivotal.io/hc/en-us/articles/202652748-Generating-a-self-signed-SSL-certificate-using-the-Java-keytool-command-)

Another good resource is Oracle's documentations for generating a keystore, which can be found [here](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19509-01/820-3503/6nf1il6er/index.html) 

# Known Issues
Libpurple clients (i.e. Pidgin) fail to connect to the bouncer. This is intended to be fixed in a future release.

# Contributing
Shane is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. Any contributions / feature requests are welcome. Feel free to submit an issue if you want to disucss including a feature in a future release.

# Compiling
Shane has no external dependencies, so compiling can easily be done by importing the repository in eclipse or just using javac on the .java files.
